AICDBench: A Challenging Benchmark for AI-Generated Code Detection
Daniil Orel1, Dilshod Azizov1, Indraneil Paul2, Yuxia Wang3,
Iryna Gurevych1,2, Preslav Nakov1
1Mohamed bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence (MBZUAI), UAE
2Ubiquitous Knowledge Processing Lab (UKP Lab), Department of Computer Science,
TUDarmstadt and National Research Center for Applied Cybersecurity ATHENE, Germany
3 INSAIT, Sofia University “St. Kliment Ohridski”, Bulgaria
{name.surname}@mbzuai.ac.ae; {name.surname}@tu-darmstadt.de
Abstract
arXiv:2602.02079v1  [cs.LG]  2 Feb 2026
Large language models (LLMs) are increas
ingly capable of generating functional source
code, raising concerns about authorship, ac
countability, and security. While detecting AI
generated code is critical, existing datasets and
benchmarks are narrow, typically limited to
binary human-machine classification under in
distribution settings. To bridge this gap, we
introduce AICD Bench, the most comprehen
sive benchmark for AI-generated code detec
tion. It spans 2M examples, 77 models across
11 families, and 9 programming languages, in
cluding recent reasoning models. Beyond scale,
AICD Bench introduces three realistic detec
tion tasks: (i) Robust Binary Classification un
der distribution shifts in language and domain,
(ii) Model Family Attribution, grouping gen
erators by architectural lineage, and (iii) Fine
Grained Human-Machine Classification across
human, machine, hybrid, and adversarial code.
Extensive evaluation on neural and classical de
tectors shows that performance remains far be
low practical usability, particularly under distri
bution shift and for hybrid or adversarial code.
Werelease AICD Bench as a unified, challeng
ing evaluation suite to drive the next generation
of robust approaches for AI-generated code de
tection. The data and the code are available at
https://huggingface.co/AICD-bench.
1 Introduction
With the rapid advances of LLMs, the field of soft
ware engineering has also changed. Today, the
generation of syntactically and semantically correct
functional code can be done at scale. LLMs can not
only solve challenging problems from platforms
like LeetCode1, but also write production-ready
code, find and fix bugs, and write unit tests (Guo
et al., 2024; Rozière et al., 2023; Yang et al., 2025;
Tufano et al., 2020). Thus, the need to detect such
code reliably has emerged as a critical challenge.
1https://leetcode.com/
Detecting whether a piece of code was written
by a human or generated by an LLM is no longer a
niche problem and is central to ensuring academic
integrity (Salim et al., 2024; Finnie-Ansley et al.,
2023), preventing plagiarism (Park et al., 2025),
and mitigating security risks (Tihanyi et al., 2024)
associated with undetected synthetic code.
In response to this demand, research on AI
generated code detection has grown rapidly, with
numerous methods proposed in recent years. How
ever, this progress has been accompanied by frag
mented evaluation: most studies introduce not only
a new detection model, but also a dataset tailored
to a specific experimental setting. Such datasets
typically cover narrow configurations, for exam
ple, a small number of programming languages
(e.g., only Python, C++, and Java), a limited set
of LLMs (e.g., API-based models only), and non
reasoning generation patterns, resulting in highly
domain-specific conclusions. While impressive per
formance is often reported under these controlled
conditions, such results provide limited insight into
real-world generalization. The core limitation is the
absence of a unified, comprehensive benchmark ca
pable of evaluating detection methods across multi
ple dimensions of variation.
Existing evaluations predominantly report in
domain accuracy, neglecting out-of-distribution
(OOD) generalization, which is a cornerstone of
real-world deployability. Even when OOD evalu
ation is attempted, it typically considers only one
dimension at a time: either changing the program
ming language (e.g., from Python to Java) or chang
ing the purpose of the code (e.g., from algorithmic
problem solving to real-world deployable code) or
varying the generator model, but rarely both simul
taneously. Such conditions yield optimistic results
and do not reflect realistic deployment, where de
tectors must handle unseen models, programming
languages, domains, and code written in an adver
sarial way.
1
To overcome these challenges, we present AICD
Bench, a new large-scale benchmark for AI
generated code detection. Unlike prior resources,
AICD Bench systematically evaluates detectors
across multiple axes of variation, including gen
erator families, programming languages, and ad
versarial strategies. It introduces three tasks de
signed to capture increasingly realistic challenges:
(i) Robust Binary Classification under language
and domain shifts, (ii) Model Family Attribution,
grouping generators by architectural lineage, and
(iii) Fine-Grained Human-Machine Classification,
distinguishing human, machine, hybrid and adver
sarial code.
Our contributions are as follows:
1. We release AICD Bench a comprehensive 2M
sample benchmark that spans 77 generators
and 9 programming languages, subsuming
previous datasets, and provide standardized
splits, protocols, and evaluation scripts to en
able reproducible research.
2. We define novel tasks that go beyond binary
classification, including model-family attribu
tion and fine-grained classification.
3. We conduct extensive evaluations of classical
and deep learning-based baselines, showing
that current methods generalize poorly in out
of-distribution settings.
2 Related Work
2.1 Authorship Attribution
With the widespread use of LLMs, recognizing the
author of a piece of work has become an important
problem. It can be viewed from multiple perspec
tives: as a multiway classification problem, where
each output has to be paired with an author from a
candidate list (which could include LLMs), or as
a binary classification problem, e.g., “Is it written
by a human or an LLM?”, “Do these outputs share
the same author?”, etc. (Uchendu et al., 2020).
Previous research in both text and code domains
has focused on the first perspective. For example,
Wang et al. (2024a) and Orel et al. (2025a) address
authorship attribution as a multi-class classification
problem, where each class corresponds to a specific
LLM. In addition to supervised approaches, unsu
pervised methods have been proposed for author
ship identification, including Uniform Information
Density (Venkatraman et al., 2024) and stylistic
However, most existing methods aim to iden
tify the signature of an individual model. As the
number of deployed LLMs continues to grow, fine
grained attribution at the level of individual models
becomes increasingly impractical. A more scal
able alternative is attribution at the level of model
families, defined as groups of related models that
share a common architecture and training philoso
phy but differ in size, capabilities, or specialization.
In AICD Bench, we introduce a dedicated task that
targets attribution of a given code sample to its
underlying model family.
2.2 Benchmarks for AI-Generated Code
Detection
AI-generated code detection largely follows the
trajectory of AI-generated text detection, where
progress has been driven by benchmarks, such as
RAID (Dugan et al., 2024), MULTITUDE (Macko
et al., 2023), and MAGE (Li et al., 2024), and ro
bust detection models developed through shared
tasks (Wang et al., 2025). Early work on code de
tection relied on small-scale benchmarks: Nguyen
et al. (2024) introduced a 7K-sample dataset and
trained a CodeBERT-based classifier (Feng et al.,
2020), marking one of the first systematic ap
proaches. More recently, Xu et al. (2025) pro
posed a benchmark of 1.1M Java and Python code
samples (550K human–AI pairs) and trained Unix
Coder (Guo et al., 2022) with a contrastive objec
tive, achieving improved detection performance.
A further step toward increased diversity was
taken by Orel et al. (2025a), who released a dataset
of nearly 500K code samples across C++, Java, and
Python generated by five compact Code-LMs. Be
yond expanding language and model coverage, they
introduced a hybrid authorship identification task
to distinguish human-written, machine-generated,
and human–machine co-authored code. This par
tially addressed the need for evaluations beyond bi
nary distinctions. More recently, the Droid frame
work (Orel et al., 2025b) extended this line of work
by proposing a detection pipeline and introducing
an adversarial setting in which LLMs are trained to
evade detection, increasing realism and difficulty.
Despite these advances, existing resources fall
short of constituting a benchmark, as they lack
standardized tasks, splits, and evaluation protocols.
Theprominent exception is CodeMirage (Guoetal.,
2025), which presents a dataset of 210K samples
spanning 10 programming languages and generated
2
representation learning (Soto et al., 2024).
by ten code LLMs.
CodeMirage evaluates ten diverse detectors, in
Task 2: Model Family Attribution. Determin
cluding zero-shot, pre-trained, fine-tuned, and
embedding-based approaches, making it the only
AI-generated code detection benchmark to date.
Nevertheless, it focuses exclusively on a single,
simplified task: binary classification of human
written versus AI-generated code. As reported in
their results, fine-tuned models such as CodeT5+
achieve F1-scores exceeding 80% on unseen gen
erators and paraphrased inputs, suggesting that the
benchmark may already be saturated.
This situation exposes a critical gap: the lack of
benchmarks that systematically evaluate detection
methods across multiple dimensions of complex
ity, including cross-model, cross-language, cross
domain, and hybrid or adversarial generation set
tings, while reflecting realistic deployment scenar
ios. Addressing this gap is the primary motivation
behind AICD Bench.
3 Motivation Behind the Task Design
The task design of AICD Bench is guided by two
complementary goals: faithfully capturing the prac
tical challenges of AI-generated code detection and
addressing key limitations of existing benchmarks.
Asdiscussed in Section 2, prior datasets and evalua
tions have largely centered on binary classification:
human-written vs. machine-generated code. While
this task is fundamental, it fails to capture the in
creasingly diverse, hybrid, and adversarial ways
in which LLMs are used in practice. In order to
bridge this gap, we deliberately design a set of three
tasks that progressively increase in complexity and
realism.
Task 1: Robust Binary Classification. Binary
detection (human-written vs. machine-generated)
remains a core requirement for applications such
as academic integrity enforcement, intellectual
property protection, and software security. How
ever, most existing evaluations have focused on in
distribution settings, which can substantially over
estimate real-world performance. In practice, de
tectors must generalize to unseen programming
languages and application domains, where stylistic
conventions and structural patterns differ markedly.
To reflect this reality, Task 1 explicitly partitions
evaluation into progressively more challenging out
of-distribution splits. This design enables a sys
tematic assessment of robustness under realistic
distribution shifts, yielding a more stringent and
ing whether code is AI-generated is only a first step;
understanding which kind of model produced it is
essential for applications such as corporate intelli
gence and intellectual property protection. Rather
than attributing outputs to individual models, which
has become increasingly impractical as the number
of code-generating LLMs grows, Task 2 focuses
on model family attribution. By grouping gener
ators according to shared architectures, training
regimes, and design principles, this task provides
actionable attribution that balances scalability with
informative stylistic characterization.
Task 3: Fine-Grained Human–Machine Clas
sification. A simple binary distinction between
human- and machine-generated code overlooks
the increasingly hybrid and adversarial nature
of LLM-assisted development. In practice, de
velopers frequently co-author code with LLMs,
while alignment and adversarial training regimes
(e.g., RLHF) deliberately shape model outputs to
resemble human-written code. Consequently, a re
alistic benchmark must distinguish between fully
human-written, fully AI-generated, hybrid, and ad
versarial code. Task 3 addresses this need by fram
ing detection as a multi-way classification problem
that mirrors real-world deployment scenarios, in
which detectors must operate reliably under ambi
guity and intentional obfuscation.
4 Data
Our work builds upon Droid (Orel et al., 2025b),
which covers 7 programming languages, 43 LLMs,
and nearly 1M code samples, making it one of the
largest existing resources for AI-generated code de
tection. While comprehensive, DroidCollection
lacks recent reasoning-oriented models and does
not cover several widely used programming lan
guages. To address this, we extended the dataset by
adding two additional languages (PHP and Rust)
and incorporating a diverse set of new LLMs at a
scale comparable to the original collection, explic
itly including reasoning models. All newly gen
erated samples follow the original Droid genera
tion protocol to ensure consistency. We generated
500K samples using inverse-instruction prompting
based on StarCoderData (Li et al., 2023) and Co
deNet (Puri et al., 2021), and performed docstring
and comment-conditioned generation using data
from The Vault (Nguyen et al., 2023) to increase
3
informative evaluation than prior benchmarks.
diversity and coverage.
Task Split #Samples Languages
Task1
Train 500K Python,Java,C++
Validation 100K Python,Java,C++
Test 1M Python,Java,C++,C,
Golang,PHP,C#,JavaScript
Task2
Train 500K Python,Java,C++,C,Golang,
PHP,C#,JavaScript,Rust
Validation 100K Python,Java,C++,C,Golang,
PHP,C#,JavaScript,Rust
Test 500K Python,Java,C++,C,Golang,
PHP,C#,JavaScript,Rust
Task3
Train 900K Python,Java,C++,C,Golang,
PHP,C#,JavaScript,Rust
Validation 200K Python,Java,C++,C,Golang,
PHP,C#,JavaScript,Rust
Test 1M Python,Java,C++,C,Golang,
PHP,C#,JavaScript,Rust
Table1:AICDBench:Datasetstatisticsacrosstasks,
splits,samplecounts,andprogramminglanguages.
AICDBenchfurtherincorporateshuman-written
andhybridsamples fromsources thatwerenot
includedinDroidCollection. Specifically,we
add50Khuman-writtensamplesinC++,C,C#,
Java, JavaScript, PHP,Go, andRust fromThe
Heap(Katzyetal.,2025).TheHeapisreleasedas
acontamination-freebenchmarkanddoesnotover
lapwithTheStack(Kocetkovetal.,2023),which
underliesdatasetssuchasTheVaultandStarCoder
DatausedinDroidCollection.
WefurtheraugmentedtheAICDBenchdataset
with 100K hybrid examples from Swallow
Code (Fujii et al., 2025),whichcontainshigh
qualityprograms thatwereautomaticallygener
atedbyrewritinghuman-authoredcodeusingthe
LLaMA3.370Bmodel.Thedistributionofdataset
splitsissummarizedinTable1.
AcomparisonofDroidCollection(Oreletal.,
2025b),CodeMirage(Guoetal.,2025),andour
datasetisshowninTable2.Wecanseethatoverall,
AICDBenchsubstantiallyimprovesbothdataset
scaleandgeneratordiversity,whilealsoexpand
ingcoveragetoadditionalprogramminglanguages
andreasoning-capablemodels.Acompletelistof
generatormodelsisprovidedinSectionB.
Criteria DroidCollection CodeMirage AICDBench
#samples 1.06M 210K 2.05M
#programminglanguages 7 10 9
#models 43 10 772
#modelfamilies 10 6 11
Reasoners ✗ ✓ ✓
Table2: ComparisonofDroidCollection,CodeMi
rage,andAICDBenchintermsofsize,languages,mod
els,andmodelfamilies.
282modelsifdistinctquantizationsarecountedseparately.
Parameter Min Max
ASTdepth 2 31
Maximumlinelength(characters) 12 400
Averagelinelength(characters) 5 140
Numberoflinesofcode 6 300
Fractionofalphanumericcharacters 0.2 0.75
DocstringEnglishconfidence(%) 99 100
Table3:Filteringparametersusedduringtheconstruc
tionofAICDBench.
4.1 DataFilteringandQualityAssurance
We replicateDroid’sfilteringpipeline tomain
tainconsistencyindatadistributionandtoprevent
detectors fromexploitingdistributional artifacts
ratherthanlearningmeaningfulcodepatterns.The
filteringprocessremovesunparsablecode,overly
simpleorexcessivelycomplexsamples,non-code
andauto-generatedfiles,andnon-Englishcontent,
resultinginacleanandrepresentativedataset.We
filteredthesamplesaccordingtothecriterialisted
inTable3,whichmatchthoseusedintheconstruc
tionofDroidCollectionandworksonCode-LM
training(Pauletal.,2025;Lozhkovetal.,2024;Li
etal.,2023;Shietal.,2025).Theresultingdistri
butions(SectionC)indicatethatourdatasetiswell
structured,appropriatelycomplex,andcompara
bletoreal-worldcodebases(Herraizetal.,2011;
Lopesetal.,2017;Kolassaetal.,2013).
Weperformedde-duplicationusing theMin
Hash(Broder,1997)algorithmwithasimilarity
thresholdof0.8,appliedjointlytotheoriginaland
newlygeneratedsamples.Thisprocessensuresthat
noduplicatesremain,evenwhensamplesoverlap
withthosefromDroid,therebyguaranteeingclean
anduncontaminateddata.
4.2 RobustBinaryClassificationDataSubset
Task1focusesontrainingbinarydetectors(hu
manvs.machine)thatgeneralizeacrossunseenpro
gramminglanguagesandunseendomains.Thetest
setisdividedintofourprogressivelymorechalleng
ingsplits:(i)seenlanguages(C++,Java,Python)
andaseendomain(algorithmiccode),(ii)unseen
languages(Golang,PHP,Rust,JavaScript,C#,C)
withaseendomain,(iii)seenlanguageswithun
seendomains(researchcodeandgeneral-purpose
software),and(iv)fullyunseenlanguagesanddo
mains.Thisstructureenablesasystematicevalua
tionofrobustnessunderincreasingdistributional
shift.
4
4.3 Model Family Attribution Data Subset
We define the following families, together with
representative generators:
• DeepSeek-AI: DeepSeek-V3 (DeepSeek-AI
et al., 2024), DeepSeek-R1 (DeepSeek-AI
et al., 2025), and DeepSeek-Coder mod
els (Guo et al., 2024).
• Qwen: Qwen3 (Yang et al., 2025) and
Qwen2.5 (Yang et al., 2024).
• 01-ai: Yi-Coder models (Young et al., 2024).
• BigCode: StarCoder (Li et al., 2023) and Star
Coder2 (Lozhkov et al., 2024).
• Gemma: Gemma3(Kamath et al., 2025) and
CodeGemma (Zhao et al., 2024).
• Phi: Phi4 (Abdin et al., 2025) and Phi3 (Ab
din et al., 2024).
• Meta-Llama: Llama (Dubey et al., 2024) and
CodeLlama (Rozière et al., 2023).
• IBM-Granite: Granite Code (Mishra et al.,
2024) and Granite (Karlinsky et al., 2025).
• Mistral: Devstral3, Mixtral (Jiang et al.,
2024), and Mistral (Jiang et al., 2023).
• OpenAI: GPT-4o and GPT-4o-mini.
• Gemini: Gemini 1.5 (Reid et al., 2024) and
Gemini 2.5 (Comanici et al., 2025).
We perform evaluation under two conditions:
seen authors (generators observed during training)
and unseen authors (previously unseen generators
from known families). With 77 generators and an
average of six models per family, this task requires
f
ine-grained discrimination both within and across
model lineages.
4.4 Fine-Grained Human–Machine
Classification Data Subset
Task 3 distinguishes 4 categories of code: human
written, machine-generated, hybrid (human
authored code rewritten or completed by an LLM),
and adversarial. The latter includes code pro
duced using prompts or alignment strategies de
signed to elicit human-like outputs, including DPO
based (Rafailov et al., 2023) fine-tuning on paired
human and LLM-generated solutions.
The test set contains 1M examples, with half
drawn from the same sources as the training data
(in-domain evaluation) and the other half drawn
from The Heap and Swallow Code (out-of-domain
evaluation), enabling a direct assessment of gener
alization under domain shift.
5 Experiments and Results
5.1 Experimental Setup
To assess the utility of AICD Bench, we train a
suite of encoder-based classifiers on its three tasks.
Unless stated otherwise, all models are trained for
3 epochs with a batch size of 64 and an input win
dow of 512 tokens, following the configuration that
yields the best performance in Droid. Importantly,
our goal is not to obtain state-of-the-art results;
rather, these experiments aim to demonstrate the
benchmark’s applicability and to confirm that it
provides a meaningful and reliable evaluation.
We experimented with the following encoders:
CodeBERT (Feng et al., 2020), CodeT5+ (Wang
et al., 2023), UnixCoder (Guo et al., 2022), Mod
ernBERT (Warner et al., 2025), RoBERTa (Liu
et al., 2019), and DeBERTa-v3 (hereafter, De
BERTa) (He et al., 2023). We selected them due to
their widespread use in AI-generated content detec
tion: CodeBERT is used by Nguyen et al. (2024),
CodeT5+ and UnixCoder by Xu et al. (2025) and
Orel et al. (2025a), ModernBERT by Orel et al.
(2025b), and RoBERTa by Wang et al. (2024b).
Weuse Macro-F1 as the primary evaluation met
ric. Since the datasets and the tasks are class
imbalanced, we focus on reliable performance
across all classes rather than optimizing for the
majority label. Macro-F1 computes the F1 score in
dependently for each class and then averages across
classes, ensuring that minority-class performance
contributes equally to the overall score. Compared
to accuracy (often dominated by frequent classes)
and Micro-F1 (which aggregates over all instances
and thus favors majority classes), Macro-F1 pro
vides a fairer and more informative assessment in
our setting.
In addition to encoder-based models, we train
classical baselines, including Logistic Regression,
SVM, and CatBoost (Prokhorenkova et al., 2018).
For each, we evaluate three feature representations:
(i) TF-IDF, (ii) AST-based features, which have
been shown to be useful for AI-generated code
detection (Orel et al., 2025a,b; Idialu et al., 2024),
5
3Devstral Model
and (iii) their combination.
ForTF-IDF,weusethefullsourcetextandto
kenizeitusingwhitespacedelimiters,i.e.,anyse
quenceofspaces,tabs,orlinebreaks,withoutap
plyinglowercasing,stop-wordremoval,orpunc
tuation/identifiernormalization. Fromthistoken
stream,weconstructuni-,bi-,andtri-gramvocabu
lariesandcomputeTF-IDFfeaturesoverthetrain
ingcorpus, startingfrom5,000n-gramfeatures
andreducingdimensionalityto500usingtruncated
singularvaluedecomposition(SVD;Zhang,2015).
ForAST-basedfeatures,weparseeachprogram
usingTree-Sitter4 andextract structural signals,
includingoverallASTdepth,countsofnode/con
structtypes(e.g.,numbersofifstatements,loops,
andfunctiondefinitions), layout/styleindicators
(e.g., empty-linedensity), andcode-complexity
proxies. Featuredimensionality is data-driven
andequalsthenumberofdistinctAST-derivedat
tributesobservedintraining,yielding543features
fortheRobustBinaryClassificationtaskand1,030
fortheremainingtasks(whichinvolvemorepro
gramminglanguages).
We also runzero-shot Fast-DetectGPT(Bao
et al., 2024), a faster version of De
tectGPT (Mitchell et al., 2023) that uses
human-machine differences in token-choice
likelihood and has shown strong performance
detectingAI text andcode (Orel et al., 2025a).
Since it is best suited tobinarydecisions, we
evaluateitonTask1andonabinarizedversionof
Task3(humanvs.allotherclasses). Finally,we
evaluateLLMperformanceonproposedtasks;see
Section5.2.4fordetails.
5.2 EvaluationResults
Table4showsthatdeeplearningmodels(Code
BERT,CodeT5+,ModernBERT,RoBERTa,UniX
Coder, andDeBERTa) outperformclassical ap
proaches. This suggests that neural encoders’
contextualrepresentationsprovidemoreinforma
tive signals for identifyingAI-generated code
thanstructural(AST-based)orstatistical(TF-IDF
based)features.Amongneuralmodels,Modern
BERTachievesthestrongestperformanceonTasks
2and3,consistentwithfindingsreportedbyOrel
etal.(2025b).Zero-shotFast-DetectGPToutper
formstrainedmodelsinTask1butstillfallsshort
oftherandombaseline,highlightingthedifficulty
ofrobustbinarydetectionunderdistributionshift.
4https://tree-sitter.github.io/tree-sitter/
5Scoresdifferfrom1/#classesduetoclassimbalance.
6Binarized.
Model Task1 Task2 Task3
Random5 45.73 5.69 20.34
Majority 43.83 5.43 20.05
Fast-DetectGPT 44.99- 50.036
CBTF-IDF 29.40 5.47 22.45
CBAST 18.02 7.78 14.59
CBAST&TF-IDF 18.02 0.12 3.09
SVMTF-IDF 43.05 5.44 21.28
SVMAST 18.02 5.99 3.43
SVMAST&TF-IDF 18.02 1.38 5.82
LRTF-IDF 37.10 5.45 20.64
LRAST 18.02 5.44 3.18
LRAST&TF-IDF 18.02 1.09 5.23
CodeBERT 28.64 23.71 55.60
CodeT5+ 28.08 5.43 52.76
ModernBERT 30.61 32.84 61.65
RoBERTa 31.88 17.52 52.05
UnixCoder 25.51 26.64 54.21
DeBERTa 34.13 12.08 54.65
Table4:MacroF1-scoreofbaselinesacrossall tasks.
Bestmodel performanceper task isbolded, while
dummybaselines(randomormajority)areunderlined
wheretheyoutperformtrainedmodels. (LogisticRe
gression-LR;CatBoost-CB.Task1correspondstothe
RobustBinaryClassificationtask,Task2corresponds
totheModelFamilyAttributiontask,andTask3corre
spondstotheFine-GrainedHuman-MachineClassifica
tiontask.)
OnTask3,evenwhenevaluatedinabinarized
setting,Fast-DetectGPTlagsbehindtransformer
baseddetectors, indicatingthathybridandadver
sarialsamplesdivergesubstantiallyfromwhatthis
detectorcharacterizesasmachine-generated.
5.2.1 Task1:RobustBinaryClassification
Inthistask,classicalmodelsachieveunexpectedly
strongperformance(seeTable4):SVMandLogis
ticRegressionwithTF-IDFfeaturesoutperformall
deeplearningmodels.Becausethetaskprimarily
probesout-of-distributiongeneralization, thisbe
haviorisconsistentwithclassicallearningtheory,
whereincreasedmodelcomplexitycanexacerbate
overfittingtospuriouscorrelations(Rohlfs,2025).
Atthesametime,bothrandomandmajority-class
baselinesachieveevenhigherscores,highlighting
aseveretrain–testdistributionshiftthatlimitsreli
ablegeneralization.
Further analysis indicates that language
independent cues, such as variable naming
patterns, play a central role in distinguishing
human-written from AI-generated code (see
SectionD.1),whichhelpsexplainwhyTF-IDF
featuresareparticularlyeffectiveinthissetting.
6
Setting
Macro F1 STD(±)
Seen domain, seen language
Seen domain, unseen language
Unseen domain, unseen language
Unseen domain, seen language
0.63
0.42
0.21
0.20
0.30
0.12
0.07
0.08
Table 5: Task 1 (Robust Binary Classification): exper
iments across different domain/language settings. We
report Macro F1, averaged over detectors.
We further analyze model performance across
four input scenarios: (i) seen language and seen
domain, (ii) unseen language in a seen domain,
(iii) seen language in an unseen domain, and (iv) un
seen language and an unseen domain. As shown
in Table 5, domain shift emerges as the dominant
source of error: models perform nearly as poorly
when only the domain is unseen as when both the
domain and the language are unseen. This behav
ior is expected, as coding style and conventions
vary substantially across domains; for instance, re
search code often contains extensive explanatory
comments, whereas algorithmic problem solutions
are typically concise and minimally annotated.
As shown in Section D, the AST features de
crease the performance of the model when paired
with TF-IDF. We believe that it is reasonable, since
the structure of the unseen data is very different
from the training data, so the AST features cannot
be used as a robust representation. Statistical fea
tures from TF-IDF, at the same time, can handle
not only the syntactical, but also some stylistical
(naming conventions, etc.) properties of the code,
which can be used to identify LLM-generated code.
5.2.2 Task 2: Model Family Attribution
As shown in Tables 4 and 6, this task is the most
challenging among all three tasks, exhibiting the
lowest peak and average performance across mod
els. This difficulty is largely attributable to the
increased number of classes: while Robust Binary
Classification involves only two labels and Fine
Grained Human-Machine Classification involves
four, model family attribution requires discrimina
tion among 12 classes.
Apronounced performance gap is also observed
between in-domain and out-of-domain generators.
As shown in Table 6, attributing previously unseen
generators to their corresponding families proves
particularly difficult, suggesting substantial varia
tion within model families and limited transferabil
Category
Macro F1 STD(±)
In-domain Generator
Out-of-Domain Generator
0.149
0.046
0.154
0.070
Table 6: Task 2 (Model Family Attribution): average
Macro-F1 across models by generator type.
Figure 1: Task 2(ModelFamilyAttribution): Modern
BERTconfusion matrix. The values are row-normalized
percentages, showing the proportion of each true class
assigned to each predicted class.
Moreover, the standard deviation of performance
exceeds the mean, which together with Figure 6
indicates high variability and instability across clas
sification models.
Figure 1 further illustrates these challenges. The
best-performing model, ModernBERT, almost per
fectly identifies human-written code and OpenAI
generated samples, which can be attributed to the
low intra-family variability of these classes: they
comprise only one (human) and two (GPT-4o and
GPT-4o-mini) generators, respectively. In contrast,
Gemini samples are frequently misclassified as
Gemma,likelyreflecting shared design and training
characteristics, as both model families are devel
oped by Google. We also observe that StarCoder
outputs are often misclassified as human-written
code, which is consistent with the fact that the Star
Coder family includes multiple base models and is
trained predominantly on large volumes of open
source human-authored code. This training regime
may lead to generations that closely resemble nat
ural coding patterns in terms of structure, naming
conventions, and style. A detailed, model-wise
7
ity of learned stylistic signals.
analysis for this task is provided in Section E.
Category
Macro F1 STD(±)
In-domain
Out-of-Domain
0.366
0.119
0.302
0.094
Table 7: Task 3 (Fine-Grained Human-Machine Clas
sification): average Macro-F1 across classifiers by gen
erator type with std.
Figure 2: Task 3 (Fine-Grained Human-Machine
Classification): ModernBERT confusion matrix. The
values are row-normalized percentages, showing the
proportion of each true class assigned to each predicted
class.
5.2.3 Task 3: Fine-Grained Human-Machine
Classification
As shown in Tables 4 and 7, in this multi-class
setting, deep learning models consistently outper
form classical approaches. Among the classical
baselines, the strongest results are obtained using
TF-IDF features alone, which we attribute to the
sparsity of the AST-based representation: out of
1,030 AST features, only 75% are non-zero. This
sparsity limits the effectiveness of structural cues in
distinguishing subtle authorship differences across
f
ine-grained classes.
A substantial performance gap emerges when
comparing in-domain and out-of-domain evalua
tion, particularly for samples drawn from Swallow
Code and The Heap. This gap indicates that mod
els struggle to generalize across data distributions
that differ from those observed during training (see
Table 7). Notably, this degradation persists even for
strong encoder models, suggesting that fine-grained
detection is especially sensitive to domain shift. A
more detailed dataset-level analysis is provided in
Section F for completeness and further insights.
An examination of the predictions from the best
Model
Task 1
Task 2
Task 3
Geminizs
Gemmazs
57.15
58.45
5.43
5.37
25.95
22.21
Geminicot
Gemmacot
62.31
54.94
5.54
5.37
28.14
22.23
Table 8: Zero-shot LLM experiments across all three
tasks: Macro F1-scores of LLMs with simple zero-shot
prompting (zs) and chain-of-thought prompting (cot).
performing model, ModernBERT, reveals that most
errors occur on out-of-domain examples, especially
Swallow Code instances labeled as hybrid. These
examples are predominantly misclassified as fully
AI-generated (see Figure 2). In addition, adver
sarial examples are frequently misclassified as ei
ther AI-generated or human-written, which is ex
pected given that such code is deliberately crafted
to mimic human authorship.
Overall, although this task is comparatively
easier than the other two, as is reflected in
generally higher scores across models, the best
achieved performance (a Macro-F1 of 61.65) re
mains well below practical requirements. This un
derscores the continued difficulty of fine-grained
human–machine discrimination and highlights the
challenge posed by AICD Bench.
5.2.4 Zero-Shot LLM Experiments
Next, we evaluate the ability of large language mod
els to perform the tasks defined in AICD Bench,
in a zero-shot setting, using two representative
LLMs: Gemini-2.5-Flash and Gemma3-27B. To
ensure cost-efficient yet representative evaluation,
we sample 5% of the data per task, stratified by
label, domain, and programming language. We
consider two evaluation settings: zero-shot clas
sification and classification with chain-of-thought
(CoT) prompting. The prompts used for both set
tings are provided in Section C.1.
As shown in Table 8, zero-shot CoT prompting
consistently improves the performance across tasks.
In particular, Gemini with CoT prompting achieves
the highest score on Task 1 among all evaluated
models. However, Task 2 remains highly challeng
ing for LLMs, and the performance on Task 3 is
substantially lower than that of trained detection
models.
8
5.3 Error Analysis
6 Conclusion and Future Work
We analyze errors by examining the cases where
all evaluated models fail; representative examples
are shown in Section G.
For Task 1, we observe a clear asymmetric fail
ure pattern: all models misclassify certain human
written samples as AI-generated, while no AI
generated samples are misclassified by all models.
This suggests that detectors effectively identify AI
generated code, likely due to shared stylistic arti
facts, but struggle with the broader syntactic, struc
tural, and stylistic diversity of human-written code.
Manual inspection reveals no consistent LLM-like
traits (e.g., boilerplate, verbose comments, repeti
tive patterns, or unusual naming), indicating that
these are genuine human examples flagged because
they fall outside the “typical” human patterns seen
during training.
For Task 2, we observe no consistent error pat
terns across models. In contrast, for Task 3, all
models fail on hybrid and human-written samples
from Swallow Code and The Heap, which are ab
sent from the training data. This further highlights
the strong sensitivity of detectors to domain shifts,
particularly in fine-grained classification settings.
Wealso apply SHAP (Lundberg and Lee, 2017)
to analyze which input features most strongly influ
ence the model predictions; illustrative examples
are shown in Section H. For Task 1, deep mod
els exhibit a pronounced bias toward competitive
programming artifacts: surface-level templates
(e.g., #include, #define, class Solution, loop
scaffolding, and typed signatures) are overempha
sized relative to semantic content, while explana
tory or demonstration tokens (e.g., the answer
would, TreeNode, sum, summary, //) often trigger
incorrect AI predictions under domain shift.
In contrast, for Task 3 especially for hybrid sam
ples the most informative cues arise from mixed
contexts, such as non-algorithmic headers inter
leaved with code, shell/URL/path fragments near
code tokens, and documentation-like text embed
ded within code (docstrings, small unit tests, usage
examples, repeated imports, and high-level task
verbs such as deploy, retrieve, or server).
Features that push predictions away from the
hybrid class include runnable scaffolding (e.g., if
__name__ == __main__), dense CLI/IO patterns,
explicit error handling (try/except), and human
written license headers. Overall, codestyle mixing
is the dominant signal for identifying hybrid code.
We presented AICD Bench, the largest and most
comprehensive benchmark for AI-generated code
detection to date. It comprises 2M code samples
from 77 generators, including strong reasoning
oriented models, across 9 programming languages,
and introduces three complementary tasks: ro
bust binary classification under distribution shifts,
model family attribution, and fine-grained hu
man–machine classification. By jointly empha
sizing scale, diversity, and realistic evaluation set
tings, AICD Bench substantially extends the scope
of prior benchmarks.
Extensive evaluations with both neural and clas
sical baselines demonstrate that these tasks remain
far from solved. Current detectors struggle to gener
alize across programming languages, domains, and
generator families, and perform particularly poorly
on hybrid and adversarial code. While Modern
BERT achieves the strongest overall performance,
leading on two of the three tasks, even the best
performing models fall well short of practical re
quirements. Notably, a simple SVM outperforms
deep learning models on robust binary classifica
tion, yet still performs below random guessing,
highlighting severe generalization challenges and
the urgent need for new detection paradigms.
Beyond exposing these limitations, AICD Bench
provides a standardized and extensible evaluation
framework with unified tasks, splits, and protocols,
enabling reproducible comparison and systematic
progress. By moving beyond oversimplified in
distribution binary detection, it reorients the field
toward realistic, deployment-driven challenges.
In future work, we plan to investigate ad
versarial and domain-adaptive training strategies
aimed at improving robustness under distribu
tion shift, such as adversarial data augmenta
tion, domain-invariant representation learning, and
curriculum-based adaptation across programming
languages and domains. We also intend to develop
meta-models that explicitly promote generalization
across languages, domains, and generator families,
for example by learning shared detection priors
or dynamically combining task-specific detectors.
Finally, we aim to build an automated pipeline to
continuously expand the benchmark with newly
released LLMs, emerging programming languages,
and diverse sources of human-written code, en
suring that AICD Bench remains representative of
evolving real-world coding practices.
9
Limitations
Ethical Statement
Potential Data Contamination. As with many
public benchmarks, there is a risk that AICD Bench
may become saturated over time as models are in
creasingly tuned to its specific distributions. This is
particularly problematic given that the benchmark
is intended to assess out-of-distribution robustness.
To mitigate this risk, we plan to introduce a private
evaluation split with hidden labels, where submis
sions will be evaluated through an online platform
rather than via local testing.
Reliance on DroidCollection. Our benchmark
builds substantially on DroidCollection. Despite
incorporating additional models, two supplemen
tary datasets, and new programming languages,
it remains influenced by the underlying distribu
tion of that resource. Consequently, (i) none of
the Droid generators can be directly evaluated on
AICD Bench, and (ii) the observed performance
trends may still reflect distributional skews inher
ited from DroidCollection rather than those of
AI-generated and human-written code encountered
in real-world settings. We plan to address this limi
tation by iteratively updating the benchmark with
newer and more diverse data sources, thereby re
ducing reliance on any single dataset.
Constraints on Code Diversity. Although AICD
Bench aims to approximate real-world coding sce
narios, its coverage remains constrained along two
dimensions. First, the dataset is filtered using pa
rameters such as AST depth, line length, and code
size, which ensures clean samples but excludes
highly verbose, overly complex, extremely short, or
poorly structured code commonly found in practice.
As a result, the benchmark may not fully capture
the syntactic, structural, and stylistic variability
of human-written code. Second, the benchmark
currently spans nine widely used programming lan
guages (C++, C, C#, Go, Java, JavaScript, PHP,
Python, and Rust), which, while representative of
many real-world applications, form a finite set and
do not test generalization beyond this scope.
To mitigate these limitations, future iterations
of AICD Bench will (i) relax filtering thresholds
to include more atypical and low-quality human
written code, and (ii) expand language coverage
to less mainstream or domain-specific languages
(e.g., Swift, Kotlin, MATLAB), enabling evalua
tion under broader and more challenging distribu
Data Collection and Privacy. AICD Bench is
constructed from publicly available research cor
pora and model outputs generated via documented
interfaces. We comply with platform terms of ser
vice and respect upstream licenses. Human-written
code is sourced from published research datasets;
no private repositories, paywalled content, or sen
sitive personal identifiers are included. Where re
quired, we preserve original attributions and suffi
cient metadata for license compliance.
Our work aims to promote transparency in AI
assisted coding and support applications such as
plagiarism detection, compliance, and provenance
auditing. To mitigate misuse risks (e.g., detector
evasion), we do not release exploit-oriented prompt
details and clearly document the limitations of cur
rent detectors.
Bias. Both human- and LLM-authored code may
reflect biases arising from data availability, plat
form popularity, community conventions, and train
ing corpora. As a result, AICD Bench may in
herit distributional skews (e.g., language, domain,
or style imbalances) that affect external validity.
Wemitigate these risks through diverse sampling
across platforms, languages, and generator families,
though perfect representativeness cannot be guar
anteed. Future releases will include more detailed
bias analyses and refined sampling strategies.
Risk of Misuse. Although AICD Bench strength
ens detection research, it could also be misused to
develop evasion strategies. To reduce this risk, we
avoid releasing adversarial prompts and emphasize
that the benchmark is for research use only.
Broader Impact. By framing detection as a mul
titask, realism-driven benchmark, we aim to move
the field beyond oversimplified binary detection
toward practical robustness. Despite its limitations,
AICD Bench provides a foundation for more trans
parent, accountable, and trustworthy AI-assisted
programming.
Acknowledgments
At TUDarmstadt, this research has been supported
by the German Federal Ministry of Research, Tech
nology and Space and the Hessian Ministry of
Higher Education, Research, Science and the Arts
within their joint support of the National Research
10
tional shifts.
Center for Applied Cybersecurity ATHENE.
References
Akhil Mathur, Alan Schelten, Amy Yang, Angela
Fan, Anirudh Goyal, Anthony Hartshorn, Aobo Yang,
Marah I Abdin, Sahaj Agarwal, Ahmed Awadallah, Vid
hisha Balachandran, Harkirat S. Behl, Lingjiao Chen,
Gustavo de Rosa, Suriya Gunasekar, Mojan Java
heripi, Neel Joshi, Piero Kauffmann, Yash Lara, Caio
César Teodoro Mendes, Arindam Mitra, Besmira
Nushi, Dimitris Papailiopoulos, Olli Saarikivi, Shi
tal Shah, Vaishnavi Shrivastava, and 4 others. 2025.
Phi-4-Reasoning technical report. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2504.21318.
Marah I Abdin, Sam Ade Jacobs, Ammar Ahmad Awan,
Jyoti Aneja, Ahmed Awadallah, Hany Awadalla,
Nguyen Bach, Amit Bahree, Arash Bakhtiari, Harki
rat S. Behl, Alon Benhaim, Misha Bilenko, Jo
han Bjorck, Sébastien Bubeck, Martin Cai, Caio
César Teodoro Mendes, Weizhu Chen, Vishrav
Chaudhary, Parul Chopra, and 68 others. 2024.
Phi-3 technical report: A highly capable language
model locally on your phone. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2404.14219.
Guangsheng Bao, Yanbin Zhao, Zhiyang Teng, Linyi
Yang, and Yue Zhang. 2024. Fast-DetectGPT: Effi
cient zero-shot detection of machine-generated text
via conditional probability curvature. In Proceedings
of the International Conference on Learning Repre
sentations, ICLR ’24, Vienna, Austria.
Andrei Z. Broder. 1997. On the resemblance and con
tainment of documents. In Proceedings of Compres
sion and Complexity of SEQUENCES 1997, pages
21–29, Salerno, Italy.
Gheorghe Comanici, Eric Bieber, Mike Schaekermann,
Ice Pasupat, Noveen Sachdeva, Inderjit S. Dhillon,
Marcel Blistein, Ori Ram, Dan Zhang, Evan Rosen,
Luke Marris, Sam Petulla, Colin Gaffney, Asaf Aha
roni, Nathan Lintz, Tiago Cardal Pais, Henrik Jacob
sson, Idan Szpektor, Nan-Jiang Jiang, and 81 others.
2025. Gemini 2.5: Pushing the frontier with ad
vanced reasoning, multimodality, long context, and
next generation agentic capabilities. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2507.06261.
DeepSeek-AI, Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Haowei Zhang,
Junxiao Song, Ruoyu Zhang, Runxin Xu, Qihao Zhu,
Shirong Ma, Peiyi Wang, Xiao Bi, Xiaokang Zhang,
Xingkai Yu, Yu Wu, Z. F. Wu, Zhibin Gou, Zhi
hong Shao, Zhuoshu Li, Ziyi Gao, and 81 others.
2025. Deepseek-R1: Incentivizing reasoning capabil
ity in llms via reinforcement learning. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2501.12948.
DeepSeek-AI, Aixin Liu, Bei Feng, Bing Xue, Bingx
uan Wang, Bochao Wu, Chengda Lu, Chenggang
Zhao, Chengqi Deng, Chenyu Zhang, Chong Ruan,
Damai Dai, Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Deli Chen,
Dongjie Ji, Erhang Li, Fangyun Lin, Fucong Dai,
and 80 others. 2024. Deepseek-V3 technical report.
ArXiv preprint, abs/2412.19437.
Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri, Abhinav Pandey,
Archi Mitra, Archie Sravankumar, Artem Korenev,
Arthur Hinsvark, Arun Rao, Aston Zhang, and 82
others. 2024. The Llama 3 herd of models. ArXiv
preprint, abs/2407.21783.
Liam Dugan, Alyssa Hwang, Filip Trhlík, Andrew
Zhu, Josh Magnus Ludan, Hainiu Xu, Daphne Ip
polito, and Chris Callison-Burch. 2024. RAID: A
shared benchmark for robust evaluation of machine
generated text detectors. In Proceedings of the 62nd
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics, ACL ’24, pages 12463–12492, Bangkok,
Thailand.
Zhangyin Feng, Daya Guo, Duyu Tang, Nan Duan, Xi
aocheng Feng, Ming Gong, Linjun Shou, Bing Qin,
Ting Liu, Daxin Jiang, and Ming Zhou. 2020. Code
BERT: A pre-trained model for programming and
natural languages. In Findings of the Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,
EMNLP’20, pages 1536–1547, Online. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
James Finnie-Ansley, Paul Denny, Andrew Luxton
Reilly, Eddie Antonio Santos, James Prather, and
Brett A. Becker. 2023. My AI wants to know if this
will be on the exam: Testing OpenAI’s Codex on
CS2 programming exercises. In Proceedings of the
25th Australasian Computing Education Conference,
ACE’23, page 97–104, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
Association for Computing Machinery.
Kazuki Fujii, Yukito Tajima, Sakae Mizuki, Hinari
Shimada, Taihei Shiotani, Koshiro Saito, Masanari
Ohi, Masaki Kawamura, Taishi Nakamura, Takumi
Okamoto, Shigeki Ishida, Kakeru Hattori, Youmi
Ma, Hiroya Takamura, Rio Yokota, and Naoaki
Okazaki. 2025. Rewriting pre-training data boosts
LLMperformance in math and code. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2505.02881.
Daya Guo, Shuai Lu, Nan Duan, Yanlin Wang, Ming
Zhou, and Jian Yin. 2022. UniXcoder: Unified cross
modal pre-training for code representation. In Pro
ceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Associa
tion for Computational Linguistics, ACL ’22, pages
7212–7225, Dublin, Ireland. Association for Compu
tational Linguistics.
Daya Guo, Qihao Zhu, Dejian Yang, Zhenda Xie, Kai
Dong, Wentao Zhang, Guanting Chen, Xiao Bi,
Y. Wu, Y. K. Li, Fuli Luo, Yingfei Xiong, and Wen
feng Liang. 2024. DeepSeek-Coder: When the large
language model meets programming- the rise of code
intelligence. ArXiv preprint, abs/2401.14196.
Hanxi Guo, Siyuan Cheng, Kaiyuan Zhang, Guangyu
Shen, and Xiangyu Zhang. 2025. CodeMirage: A
multi-lingual benchmark for detecting AI-generated
and paraphrased source code from production-level
11
Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad Al-Dahle, Aiesha Letman,
LLMs. ArXiv preprint, arXiv:2506.11059.
and Software Engineering, Forge@ICSE ’25, pages
Pengcheng He, Jianfeng Gao, and Weizhu Chen.
2023. DeBERTaV3: Improving DeBERTa us
ing ELECTRA-style pre-training with gradient
disentangled embedding sharing. In Proceedings of
the International Conference on Learning Represen
tations, ICLR ’23, Kigali, Rwanda. OpenReview.net.
Israel Herraiz, Daniel Germán, and Ahmed E. Hassan.
2011. On the distribution of source code file sizes.
In Proceedings of the 6th International Conference
on Software and Database Technologies, volume 2
of ICSOFT ’11, pages 5–14, Seville, Spain.
Oseremen Joy Idialu, Noble Saji Mathews, Rungroj
Maipradit, Joanne M. Atlee, and Mei Nagappan.
2024. Whodunit: Classifying code as human
authored or GPT-4 generated- a case study on
CodeChef problems. In Proceedings of the 21st In
ternational Conference on Mining Software Repos
itories, MSR ’24, page 394–406, Lisbon, Portugal.
Association for Computing Machinery.
Albert Q. Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Arthur Men
sch, Chris Bamford, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego
de Las Casas, Florian Bressand, Gianna Lengyel,
Guillaume Lample, Lucile Saulnier, Lélio Re
nard Lavaud, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Pierre Stock,
Teven Le Scao, Thibaut Lavril, Thomas Wang, Timo
thée Lacroix, and William El Sayed. 2023. Mistral
7B. ArXiv preprint, abs/2310.06825.
Albert Q. Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Antoine
Roux, Arthur Mensch, Blanche Savary, Chris Bam
ford, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego de Las Casas,
Emma Bou Hanna, Florian Bressand, Gianna
Lengyel, Guillaume Bour, Guillaume Lample,
Lélio Renard Lavaud, Lucile Saulnier, Marie
Anne Lachaux, Pierre Stock, Sandeep Subramanian,
Sophia Yang, and 7 others. 2024. Mixtral of Experts.
ArXiv preprint, abs/2401.04088.
Aishwarya Kamath, Johan Ferret, Shreya Pathak, Nino
Vieillard, Ramona Merhej, Sarah Perrin, Tatiana
Matejovicova, Alexandre Ramé, Morgane Rivière,
Louis Rouillard, Thomas Mesnard, Geoffrey Cideron,
Jean-Bastien Grill, Sabela Ramos, Edouard Yvinec,
Michelle Casbon, Etienne Pot, Ivo Penchev, Gaël
Liu, and 191 others. 2025. Gemma 3 technical report.
ArXiv preprint, abs/2503.19786.
Leonid Karlinsky, Assaf Arbelle, Abraham Daniels,
Ahmed Nassar, Amit Alfassi, Bo Wu, Eli Schwartz,
Dhiraj Joshi, Jovana Kondic, Nimrod Shabtay,
Pengyuan Li, Roei Herzig, Shafiq Abedin, Shaked
Perek, Sivan Harary, Udi Barzelay, Adi Raz Goldfarb,
Aude Oliva, Ben Wieles, and 43 others. 2025. Gran
ite Vision: A lightweight, open-source multimodal
model for enterprise intelligence. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2502.09927.
Jonathan Katzy, Razvan Mihai Popescu, Arie van
Deursen, and Maliheh Izadi. 2025. The Heap: A
contamination-free multilingual code dataset for eval
uating large language models. In IEEE/ACM Second
International Conference on AI Foundation Models
151–155, Ottawa, ON, Canada. IEEE.
Denis Kocetkov, Raymond Li, Loubna Ben Allal, Jia Li,
Chenghao Mou, Carlos Muñoz Ferrandis, Yacine Jer
nite, Margaret Mitchell, Sean Hughes, Thomas Wolf,
Dzmitry Bahdanau, Leandro von Werra, and Harm
de Vries. 2023. The stack: 3 TB of permissively li
censed source code. Transactions on Machine Learn
ing Research.
Carsten Kolassa, Dirk Riehle, and Michel Lind. 2013.
A model of the commit size distribution of open
source. In Proceedings of the International Con
ference on Current Trends in Theory and Practice
of Computer Science, SOFSEM ’13, pages 52–66,
Špindler˚uv Mlýn, Czech Republic. Springer.
Raymond Li, Loubna Ben Allal, Yangtian Zi, Niklas
Muennighoff, Denis Kocetkov, Chenghao Mou, Marc
Marone, Christopher Akiki, Jia Li, Jenny Chim,
Qian Liu, Evgenii Zheltonozhskii, Terry Yue Zhuo,
Thomas Wang, Olivier Dehaene, Mishig Davaadorj,
Joel Lamy-Poirier, João Monteiro, Oleh Shliazhko,
and 48 others. 2023. StarCoder: may the source
be with you! Transactions on Machine Learning
Research, 2023.
Yafu Li, Qintong Li, Leyang Cui, Wei Bi, Zhilin Wang,
Longyue Wang, Linyi Yang, Shuming Shi, and Yue
Zhang. 2024. MAGE: Machine-generated text detec
tion in the wild. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin
guistics, ACL ’24, pages 36–53, Bangkok, Thailand.
Yinhan Liu, Myle Ott, Naman Goyal, Jingfei Du, Man
dar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Omer Levy, Mike Lewis,
Luke Zettlemoyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019.
RoBERTa: A robustly optimized BERT pretraining
approach. ArXiv preprint, abs/1907.11692.
Cristina V. Lopes, Petr Maj, Pedro Martins, Vaibhav
Saini, Di Yang, Jakub Zitny, Hitesh Sajnani, and Jan
Vitek. 2017. Déjàvu: a map of code duplicates on
GitHub. Proceedings of the ACM on Programming
Languages, 1(OOPSLA).
Anton Lozhkov, Raymond Li, Loubna Ben Allal, Fed
erico Cassano, Joel Lamy-Poirier, Nouamane Tazi,
Ao Tang, Dmytro Pykhtar, Jiawei Liu, Yuxiang Wei,
Tianyang Liu, Max Tian, Denis Kocetkov, Arthur
Zucker, Younes Belkada, Zijian Wang, Qian Liu,
Dmitry Abulkhanov, Indraneil Paul, and 38 others.
2024. StarCoder 2 and the Stack v2: The next gener
ation. ArXiv preprint, abs/2402.19173.
Scott M. Lundberg and Su-In Lee. 2017. A unified
approach to interpreting model predictions. In Pro
ceedings of the 31st Int. Conference on Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, NeurIPS ’17,
Long Beach, California, USA. Curran Associates Inc.
Dominik Macko, Robert Moro, Adaku Uchendu, Ja
son Lucas, Michiharu Yamashita, Matúš Pikuliak,
Ivan Srba, Thai Le, Dongwon Lee, Jakub Simko, and
12
Maria Bielikova. 2023. MULTITuDE: Large-scale
multilingual machine-generated text detection bench
mark. In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,
EMNLP’23, pages 9960–9987, Singapore.
MayankMishra, Matt Stallone, Gaoyuan Zhang, Yikang
Shen, Aditya Prasad, Adriana Meza Soria, Michele
Merler, Parameswaran Selvam, Saptha Surendran,
Shivdeep Singh, Manish Sethi, Xuan-Hong Dang,
Pengyuan Li, Kun-Lung Wu, Syed Zawad, Andrew
Coleman, Matthew White, Mark Lewis, Raju Pavu
luri, and 27 others. 2024. Granite Code Models: A
family of open foundation models for code intelli
gence. ArXiv preprint, abs/2405.04324.
Eric Mitchell, Yoonho Lee, Alexander Khazatsky,
Christopher D. Manning, and Chelsea Finn. 2023.
DetectGPT: zero-shot machine-generated text detec
tion using probability curvature. In Proceedings of
the 40th International Conference on Machine Learn
ing, ICML’23, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA. JMLR.org.
Dung Nguyen, Le Nam, Anh Dau, Anh Nguyen, Khanh
Nghiem, Jin Guo, and Nghi Bui. 2023. The Vault:
Acomprehensive multilingual dataset for advancing
code understanding and generation. In Findings of
the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan
guage Processing, EMNLP ’23, pages 4763–4788,
Singapore. Association for Computational Linguis
tics.
Phuong T. Nguyen, Juri Di Rocco, Claudio Di Sipio,
Riccardo Rubei, Davide Di Ruscio, and Massimiliano
Di Penta. 2024. GPTSniffer: A CodeBERT-based
classifier to detect source code written by ChatGPT.
Journal of Systems and Software, page 112059.
Daniil Orel, Dilshod Azizov, and Preslav Nakov. 2025a.
CoDet-M4: Detecting machine-generated code in
multi-lingual, multi-generator and multi-domain set
tings. In Findings of the Association for Compu
tational Linguistics, ACL ’25, pages 10570–10593,
Vienna, Austria. Association for Computational Lin
guistics.
Daniil Orel, Indraneil Paul, Iryna Gurevych, and Preslav
Nakov. 2025b. Droid: A resource suite for AI
generated code detection. In Proceedings of the 2025
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan
guage Processing, EMNLP ’25, pages 31263–31289,
Suzhou, China. Association for Computational Lin
guistics.
Shinwoo Park, Hyundong Jin, Jeong won Cha, and Yo
Sub Han. 2025. Detection of LLM-paraphrased code
and identification of the responsible LLM using cod
ing style features. ArXiv preprint, abs/2502.17749.
Indraneil Paul, Haoyi Yang, Goran Glavaš, Kristian
Kersting, and Iryna Gurevych. 2025. ObscuraCoder:
Powering efficient code LM pre-training via obfusca
tion grounding. In Proceedings of the International
Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR ’25,
Singapore.
Liudmila Ostroumova Prokhorenkova, Gleb Gusev,
Aleksandr Vorobev, Anna Veronika Dorogush, and
Andrey Gulin. 2018. CatBoost: unbiased boosting
with categorical features. In Proceedings of the Con
ference on Neural Information Processing Systems,
NeurIPS ’18, pages 6639–6649, Montréal, Canada.
Ruchir Puri, David S. Kung, Geert Janssen, Wei Zhang,
Giacomo Domeniconi, Vladimir Zolotov, Julian
Dolby, Jie Chen, Mihir R. Choudhury, Lindsey
Decker, Veronika Thost, Luca Buratti, Saurabh Pujar,
Shyam Ramji, Ulrich Finkler, Susan Malaika, and
Frederick Reiss. 2021. CodeNet: A large-scale AI
for code dataset for learning a diversity of coding
tasks. In Proceedings of the Neural Information Pro
cessing Systems Track on Datasets and Benchmarks,
NeurIPS ’21, virtual.
Rafael Rafailov, Archit Sharma, Eric Mitchell, Christo
pher D. Manning, Stefano Ermon, and Chelsea Finn.
2023. Direct preference optimization: Your language
model is secretly a reward model. In Proceedings
of the Conference on Neural Information Processing
Systems, NeurIPS ’23, New Orleans, LA, USA.
Machel Reid, Nikolay Savinov, Denis Teplyashin,
Dmitry Lepikhin, Timothy P. Lillicrap, Jean-Baptiste
Alayrac, Radu Soricut, Angeliki Lazaridou, Orhan
Firat, Julian Schrittwieser, Ioannis Antonoglou, Ro
han Anil, Sebastian Borgeaud, Andrew M. Dai, Katie
Millican, Ethan Dyer, Mia Glaese, Thibault Sottiaux,
Benjamin Lee, and 34 others. 2024. Gemini 1.5: Un
locking multimodal understanding across millions of
tokens of context. ArXiv preprint, abs/2403.05530.
Chris Rohlfs. 2025. Generalization in neural networks:
Abroad survey. Neurocomputing, 611:128701.
Baptiste Rozière, Jonas Gehring, Fabian Gloeckle, Sten
Sootla, Itai Gat, Xiaoqing Ellen Tan, Yossi Adi,
Jingyu Liu, Tal Remez, Jérémy Rapin, Artyom
Kozhevnikov, Ivan Evtimov, Joanna Bitton, Man
ish Bhatt, Cristian Canton-Ferrer, Aaron Grattafiori,
Wenhan Xiong, Alexandre Défossez, Jade Copet, and
6 others. 2023. Code Llama: Open foundation mod
els for code. ArXiv preprint, abs/2308.12950.
Saiful Islam Salim, Rubin Yuchan Yang, Alexander
Cooper, Suryashree Ray, Saumya Debray, and Saz
zadur Rahaman. 2024. Impeding LLM-assisted
cheating in introductory programming assignments
via adversarial perturbation. In Proceedings of the
2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing, EMNLP ’24, pages 445–463,
Miami, Florida, USA. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Kensen Shi, Deniz Altınbüken, Saswat Anand, Mi
hai Christodorescu, Katja Grünwedel, Alexa Koen
ings, Sai Naidu, Anurag Pathak, Marc Rasi, Fredde
Ribeiro, and 1 others. 2025. Natural language out
lines for code: Literate programming in the llm era.
In Proceedings of the 33rd ACM International Con
ference on the Foundations of Software Engineering,
FSE ’25, pages 150–161.
13
Yuxia Wang, Artem Shelmanov, Jonibek Mansurov,
Rafael A. Rivera Soto, Kailin Koch, Aleem Khan,
Barry Y. Chen, Marcus Bishop, and Nicholas An
drews. 2024. Few-shot detection of machine
generated text using style representations. In Pro
ceedings of the Twelfth International Conference on
Learning Representations, ICLR ’24, Vienna, Aus
tria. OpenReview.net.
Norbert Tihanyi, Tamas Bisztray, Mohamed Amine Fer
rag, Ridhi Jain, and Lucas C. Cordeiro. 2024. How
secure is AI-generated code: a large-scale compari
son of large language models. Empirical Software
Engineering, 30(2).
Michele Tufano, Dawn Drain, Alexey Svyatkovskiy,
Shao Kun Deng, and Neel Sundaresan. 2020. Unit
test case generation with transformers. ArXiv
preprint, abs/2009.05617.
Adaku Uchendu, Thai Le, Kai Shu, and Dongwon Lee.
2020. Authorship attribution for neural text gener
ation. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,
EMNLP’20, pages 8384–8395, Online. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Saranya Venkatraman, Adaku Uchendu, and Dongwon
Lee. 2024. GPT-who: An information density-based
machine-generated text detector. In Findings of the
Association for Computational Linguistics: NAACL
2024, pages 103–115, Mexico City, Mexico. Associ
ation for Computational Linguistics.
Yue Wang, Hung Le, Akhilesh Gotmare, Nghi Bui, Jun
nan Li, and Steven Hoi. 2023. CodeT5+: Open code
large language models for code understanding and
generation. In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference
on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process
ing, EMNLP ’22, pages 1069–1088, Singapore. As
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Yuxia Wang, Jonibek Mansurov, Petar Ivanov, Jinyan
Su, Artem Shelmanov, Akim Tsvigun, Osama Mo
hammed Afzal, Tarek Mahmoud, Giovanni Puc
cetti, Thomas Arnold, Alham Aji, Nizar Habash,
Iryna Gurevych, and Preslav Nakov. 2024a. M4GT
bench: Evaluation benchmark for black-box machine
generated text detection. In Proceedings of the 62nd
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics, ACL ’24, pages 3964–3992, Bangkok,
Thailand. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Yuxia Wang, Jonibek Mansurov, Petar Ivanov, Jinyan
Su, Artem Shelmanov, Akim Tsvigun, Chenxi White
house, Osama Mohammed Afzal, Tarek Mahmoud,
Toru Sasaki, Thomas Arnold, Alham Fikri Aji,
Nizar Habash, Iryna Gurevych, and Preslav Nakov.
2024b. M4: Multi-generator, multi-domain, and
multi-lingual black-box machine-generated text de
tection. In Proceedings of the 18th Conference of
the European Chapter of the Association for Com
putational Linguistics, EACL ’24, pages 1369–1407,
St. Julian’s, Malta. Association for Computational
AkimTsvigun, Vladislav Mikhailov, Rui Xing, Zhuo
han Xie, Jiahui Geng, Giovanni Puccetti, Ekaterina
Artemova, Jinyan Su, Minh Ngoc Ta, Mervat Abassy,
Kareem Ashraf Elozeiri, Saad El Dine Ahmed El Et
ter, Maiya Goloburda, Tarek Mahmoud, Raj Vardhan
Tomar, Nurkhan Laiyk, and 7 others. 2025. GenAI
content detection task 1: English and multilingual
machine-generated text detection: AI vs. human. In
Proceedings of the Workshop on GenAI Content De
tection, pages 244–261, Abu Dhabi, UAE.
Benjamin Warner, Antoine Chaffin, Benjamin Clavié,
Orion Weller, Oskar Hallström, Said Taghadouini,
Alexis Gallagher, Raja Biswas, Faisal Ladhak, Tom
Aarsen, Griffin Thomas Adams, Jeremy Howard, and
Iacopo Poli. 2025. Smarter, better, faster, longer:
A modern bidirectional encoder for fast, memory
efficient, and long context finetuning and inference.
In Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics, ACL ’25,
pages 2526–2547, Vienna, Austria. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Xiaodan Xu, Chao Ni, Xinrong Guo, Shaoxuan Liu, Xi
aoya Wang, Kui Liu, and Xiaohu Yang. 2025. Distin
guishing LLM-generated from human-written code
by contrastive learning. ACM Transactions on Soft
ware Engineering Methodology, 34(4).
An Yang, Anfeng Li, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang,
Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chang Gao,
Chengen Huang, Chenxu Lv, Chujie Zheng, Dayi
heng Liu, Fan Zhou, Fei Huang, Feng Hu, Hao Ge,
Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jialong Tang, and 41 oth
ers. 2025. Qwen3 technical report. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2505.09388.
An Yang, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui,
Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chengyuan Li, Dayiheng Liu,
Fei Huang, Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jian Yang, Jian
hong Tu, Jianwei Zhang, Jianxin Yang, Jiaxi Yang,
Jingren Zhou, Junyang Lin, Kai Dang, and 22 oth
ers. 2024. Qwen2.5 technical report. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2412.15115.
Alex Young, Bei Chen, Chao Li, Chengen Huang,
Ge Zhang, Guanwei Zhang, Heng Li, Jiangcheng
Zhu, Jianqun Chen, Jing Chang, Kaidong Yu, Peng
Liu, Qiang Liu, Shawn Yue, Senbin Yang, Shiming
Yang, Tao Yu, Wen Xie, Wenhao Huang, and 11 oth
ers. 2024. Yi: Open foundation models by 01.AI.
ArXiv preprint, abs/2403.04652.
Zhihua Zhang. 2015. The singular value decompo
sition, applications and beyond. ArXiv preprint,
abs/1510.08532.
Heri Zhao, Jeffrey Hui, Joshua Howland, Nam Nguyen,
Siqi Zuo, Andrea Hu, Christopher A. Choquette
Choo, Jingyue Shen, Joe Kelley, Kshitij Bansal,
Luke Vilnis, Mateo Wirth, Paul Michel, Peter Choy,
Pratik Joshi, Ravin Kumar, Sarmad Hashmi, Shub
ham Agrawal, Zhitao Gong, and 7 others. 2024.
CodeGemma: Open code models based on Gemma.
14
Linguistics.
ArXiv preprint, abs/2406.11409.
Appendix
B AddedModels
A DataStatement
A.1 General Information
Dataset Title AICD Bench
Dataset Version 1.0 (September 2025)
Data Statement Version 1.0 (September 2025)
A.2 Executive Summary AICD Bench is de
signed for a rigorous and standalone evaluation
of systems that distinguish human-written code
from machine-generated, hybrid, and adversarial
code across multiple programming languages, code
generators, and domains. It compiles a large and di
verse set of code snippets drawn from widely used
programming platforms and contemporary LLM
code generators, ensuring broad language and do
main coverage.
Intended Use: AICD Bench is intended exclu
sively for research, particularly for developing and
evaluating models that detect machine-generated
code. Researchers can analyze how programming
languages, generation models, and application do
mains affect detection accuracy and robustness.
The dataset aims to support improved automated
code assessment, ethical use, and accountability in
software engineering.
Usage Restrictions: The dataset is provided
solely for academic and research purposes. Com
mercial use is prohibited without prior written con
sent from the dataset creators. Users must follow
ethical guidelines and ensure that the findings do
not violate privacy, intellectual property, or other
legal constraints. Redistribution is not permitted
without authorization from the dataset custodians.
Source: We open-source all the splits of AICD
Bench on Hugging Face.7
License Creative Commons Attribution
NonCommercial 4.0 International (CC BY–NC
4.0). We will release AICD Bench under CC
BY–NC4.0. You may share and adapt the dataset
for non-commercial research with appropriate attri
bution; no additional restrictions may be applied.
For any commercial use, prior written permission
from the authors is required. See the full license at
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/.
The dataset is provided “as is,” without warranties
of any kind.
We enlarge the DroidCollection (Orel et al.,
2025b) with additional models for nearly every
family of models. Table 9 indicates which models
were taken from the original DroidCollection,
and which were introduced in AICD Bench.
C DataDistribution
Figure 3 shows that the code in our dataset is con
sistent with healthy coding practices of real-world
projects. Namely, AST depth is moderately con
centrated (most of the values are between 10 and
15), indicating a prevalence of structured but not
overly nested control flow; the alphanumeric frac
tion peaks at 0.65 with a small standard deviation,
reflecting clear, meaningful identifiers in the code,
not noise, logs or obfuscated files; average line
length clusters tightly between 20-60 characters,
while max line length exhibits a right-skewed tail
extending beyond 200 characters reflecting adher
ence to the best practices of code structuring; and
f
ile size is heavily skewed toward short snippets
(<100 lines), with a median of nearly 40 lines, in
dicative of fine-grained code units that would fit
into the context window of most of the classifiers.
C.1 PromptTemplates
Task 1 zero-shot prompt
Reply with exactly one word
Human or AI.
Given this code,
identify its origin
{code}
Task 2 zero-shot prompt
Reply with exactly one word from
this list:
human, deepseek-ai,
Qwen,01-ai,
bigcode,Gemma,
Phi,meta-llama,ibm-granite,mistralai,
OpenAI,Gemini.
Given this code,
identify its origin
{code}
Task 3 zero-shot prompt
Reply with exactly one word
Human, AI, Hybrid or Adversarial.
Given this code,
was it written by Human, AI,
in Hybrid collaboration or by an
15
7https://huggingface.co/AICD-bench
Figure 3: Distribution of code properties.
Adversarial model which
tried to fool the detector mimicing
human? {code}
For CoT prompts, we summarized the key code
features per class using Gemini-2.5-Flash.
Task 1 CoT prompt
You are a code-origin classifier.
Infer whether a given code snippet
was written by a Human or an AI
assistant.
Reason silently and do NOT reveal
your reasoning.
Output exactly one word: Human or
AI.
When deciding, consider
(but do not list) signals such as:- Naming:
verbosity/descriptiveness,
camelCase/snake_case consistency,
oddly generic names.- Comments/docstrings: density,
uniform template-like
phrasing, section headers,
per-function summaries.- Type hints & annotations:
pervasive, perfectly
consistent typing vs.
ad-hoc/mixed usage.- Structure/style: consistent
formatter fingerprints
(Black/Prettier), tidy
imports, exhaustive
edge-cases, spotless spacing;
versus idiosyncratic style,
inconsistencies, TODO/WIP
markers.- Boilerplate/templates: license
blocks, README headers,
instructional comments,
scaffolded regions, foo/bar
placeholders,
repeated auto-generated patterns.- API/library usage: unused
imports, verbose defensive
code, redundant checks,
generic logging.- Testing/examples: synthetic
data, contrived examples,
pedantic error messages.- AI artifacts: phrases like "This
function...", tutorial-like
narration, or code mirroring
common LLM examples.- Human artifacts: partial
implementations, inline hacks,
commented-out experiments,
domain-specific shortcuts,
mismatched styles, quick fixes.
If uncertain, choose the more
likely origin using the
balance of signals.
Respond with a single word only.
Code:
‘‘‘{code}‘‘‘
Task 2 CoT prompt
You are a code-origin classifier.
Infer which single
author produced the code:
human, deepseek-ai,
Qwen, 01-ai, bigcode,
Gemma, Phi, meta-llama,
ibm-granite, mistralai,
OpenAI, Gemini.
Think silently to compare candidate
16
ModelFamily Model
Yi
Yi-Coder-9B
Yi-Coder-9B-Chat
Yi-Coder-1.5B-Chat
Yi-Coder-1.5B
GPT GPT-4o-mini
GPT-4o
Qwen
Qwen2.5-Coder-7B
Qwen2.5-Coder-7B-Instruct
Qwen2.5-Coder-1.5B-Instruct
Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct
Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct
Qwen2.5-Coder-1.5B
Qwen2.5-Coder-14B-Instruct
QwQ-32B
Qwen3-14B
Qwen3-32B
Qwen3-235B-A22B
Qwen3-30B-A3B
Gemma
codegemma-7b-it
codegemma-7b
codegemma-2b
gemma-3-27b-it
gemma-3n-e4b-it
gemma-3-12b-it
gemma-3-4b-it
Deepseek
deepseek-coder-6.7b-instruct
deepseek-coder-6.7b-base
deepseek-coder-1.3b-instruct
deepseek-coder-1.3b-base
DeepSeek-R1
DeepSeek-V3-0324
Granite
granite-8b-code-instruct-4k
granite-8b-code-base-4k
granite-3.2-2b-instruct
granite-3.3-8b-base
granite-3.3-8b-instruct
granite-34b-code-instruct-8k
granite-3b-code-base-128k
granite-3b-code-instruct-128k
Llama
Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
Llama-3.2-3B
Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct
Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct
Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct-Turbo
Llama-3.2-1B
Llama-3.1-8B
CodeLlama-70b-Instruct-hf
CodeLlama-34b-Instruct-hf
CodeLlama-7b-hf
Llama-3.2-11B-Vision-Instruct
Llama-3.2-90B-Vision-Instruct
Llama-4-Maverick-17B-128E-Instruct-FP8
Llama-4-Scout-17B-16E-Instruct
Meta-Llama-3.1-405B-Instruct
Phi
Phi-3-small-8k-instruct
Phi-3-mini-4k-instruct
phi-4
Phi-3-medium-4k-instruct
phi-2
Phi-3.5-mini-instruct
Phi-4-multimodal-instruct
Mistral
Mistral-Small-24B-Instruct-2501
Devstral-Small-2505
Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.3
Mistral-Nemo-Instruct-2407
Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1
BigCode
starcoder2-15B
starcoder
starcoder2-7b
starcoder2-3b
starcoderbase-1b
starcoderbase-3b
Gemini
gemini-1.5-flash
gemini-1.5-flash-8b
gemini-2.0-flash
gemini-2.0-flash-lite
gemini-2.5-flash-preview-05-20
Table9:Modelfamiliesandtheirselectedmodelsused
inAICDBench. Boldentriesaremodelsthatarenot
usedinDroidCollection. Italicentriesarereasoning
models.
profiles;
do not reveal reasoning.
Output exactly one word:
one of the labels above.
Use discriminative,
code-level signals:
GENERAL- Language & libs:
default choices (Python/JS/Java),
PyTorch vs. TF/JAX,
numpy/pandas usage,
pytest vs. unittest.- Structure:
module/import ordering,
helper naming density,
dataclass/typing/async usage,
error-handling patterns.- Textual:
identifier casing/length,
docstring style
(Google/NumPy/ReST/none),
comment tone,
message phrasing.- Artifacts: template scaffolds,
README-like headers,
tutorial narrations,
synthetic examples,
placeholder vars.
CANDIDATE PROFILES
(heuristics; match by best fit):- OpenAI: PEP8-clean Python,
f-strings,
type hints moderate,
Google/NumPy docstrings,
careful edge-case checks.- Gemini: tendency to verbose
instructional comments,
TF/JAX-friendly snippets,
longer docstrings with bullets.- meta-llama: PyTorch-first
demos,
concise comments,
torchvision/transformers idioms,
manual seed-setting.- mistralai: compact Python,
minimal ceremony,
itertools/collections use,
terse error messages/tests.- Qwen: occasional
bilingual tokens/comments,
pandas/NumPy-heavy utilities,
explicit dtype handling.- deepseek-ai:
performance-leaning tweaks,
vectorization/numba hints,
assert-style sanity checks.- 01-ai: straightforward
baseline patterns,
minimal comments,
direct loops over abstractions.- bigcode: repository/tooling
scaffolds,
license headers or
codegen-ready templates,
typed stubs.- Gemma: JAX/Flax hints or TF ops,
functional style utilities,
explicit shapes in comments.- Phi: didactic
step-by-step snippets,
simple class wrappers,
explicit prints/logs for tracing.- ibm-granite:
17
enterprise-style structure,
logger configuration blocks,
clear exceptions/messages.- human: mixed
styles/inconsistencies,
partial impls/TODOs,
pragmatic hacks,
commented-out experiments.
If uncertain,
choose the single most
plausible author by
strongest profile match.
Code:
‘‘‘{code}‘‘‘
Task 3 CoT prompt
You are a code-origin classifier.
Infer whether a given code snippet
was written by a Human, an AI
assistant, Hybridly generated,
or generated by an Adversarial
model trained to mimic humans
and fool detectors.
Reason silently and do NOT reveal
your reasoning.
Output exactly one word: Human,
AI, Hybrid, or Adversarial.
When deciding, consider (but do
not list) signals such as:
Naming: verbosity/descriptiveness,
camelCase/snake_case
consistency, oddly generic
names.
Comments/docstrings: density,
uniform template-like
phrasing, section headers,
per-function summaries.
Type hints and annotations:
pervasive, perfectly
consistent typing vs.
ad-hoc/mixed usage.
Structure/style: consistent
formatter fingerprints
markers.
(Black/Prettier-like), tidy
import grouping, exhaustive
edge-cases, spotless spacing;
versus idiosyncratic style, small
inconsistencies, TODO/WIP
Boilerplate/templates: license
blocks, README-like headers,
instructional comments,
scaffolded regions,
placeholder variables
(foo/bar), repeated patterns
that look auto-generated.
API/library usage: unused imports,
overly defensive patterns,
verbose step-by-step code
where a library call would
suffice, redundant checks,
generic logging.
Testing/examples: synthetic data,
contrived examples, consistent
pedantic error messages.
Artifacts of AI text: phrases like
"This function...", "The
following code...", or
code that mirrors common LLM
examples.
Human artifacts: partial
implementations, inline hacks,
commented-out experiments,
domain-specific shortcuts,
mismatched styles from
multiple edits,
quick-and-dirty error handling.
If uncertain, choose the more
likely origin using the
balance of signals.
Again: respond with a single word
only.
Classify the origin of this code
as Human, AI, Hybrid, or
Adversarial.
Return exactly one word: Human,
AI, Hybrid, or Adversarial.
Code:
‘‘‘{code}‘‘‘
D Task1Detailed Performance
Figure 5 illustrates that the domain shift has a
greater impact than the language shift. Models
perform better when the programming language
changes, as long as the code remains within the
seen domain of algorithmic problems. Notably, per
formance degrades markedly on unseen domains.
In fact, when both the domain and the language are
unseen, performance is no worse than when only
the domain is unseen, suggesting that the shift in
the domain outweighs the task’s overall difficulty.
Another key observation is that deep learning
models exhibit strong overfitting to the training set
tings: they achieve near-perfect accuracy in iden
tifying machine-generated code when both the do
mainandprogramminglanguagematchthoseinthe
training data. However, their performance drops
sharply when faced with out-of-distribution exam
ples. It persists even when the domain remains
seen, but the programming language is unseen,
which is a much easier setting. In contrast, the
performance gap for classical models is not that
large in these settings.
When comparing the programming language
wise performance, shown in Figure 4, it is clear
that the models generally perform better when the
input is Python, which is expected since Python
is the language most prevalent in the training set.
For other programming languages, performance
is quite similar, with the exception of PHP, which
syntactically differs from the rest and, thus yielding
18
tutorial-like narration, or
the lowest performance.
F Task3Detailed Performance
From Figure 8, we observe that only the CatBoost
model can utilize AST features to work at least in
domain settings. Other classical models fail shortly
Figure 4: Task 1 (Robust Binary Classification): de
tectors’ language-wise performance.
D.1 SVMPerformance Explained
To understand why the TF-IDF SVM outperformed
other baselines, we examined which n-grams most
strongly indicated human vs. AI code. For inter
pretability, we back-projected the SVM coefficients
from the SVD latent space into the original TF-IDF
feature space and ranked tokens by their contribu
tions.
We found clear stylistic differences.
AI
generated code often uses verbose, prompt-echoing
identifiers like answer, output, result, tests, and in
dex. In contrast, human-written code tended to use
shorter, organic identifiers like li, nums, pos, a1,
and cur. These patterns are not tied to any specific
programming language, which helps explain why
the SVMgeneralizes well to unseen languages: the
classifier captures stylistic regularities in human vs.
AI code rather than language-specific syntax.
E Task2Detailed Performance
Figure 6 shows that classical machine learning
models achieve nearly zero macro F1-score on out
of-domain generators, indicating a severe lack of
generalization. Among these models, TF-IDF con
sistently yields the best performance, outperform
ing AST-based representations and the combination
of TF-IDF and AST features. By contrast, deep
learning models exhibit significantly better gener
alization capabilities. Among them, ModernBERT
achieves the highest performance across in-domain
and out-of-domain generators.
The low macro F1-score of classical models on
Task 2 is further illustrated in Figure 7: these mod
els tend to predict a single dominant class, resulting
in poor performance across minority classes. Simi
larly, among deep learning models, CodeT5+ also
shows a strong bias towards predicting a single
class. In contrast, the other deep learning models,
when trying to use these features. In case of TF
IDF, on the other hand, all classical models have
demonstrated comparable performance for both
in-domain and out-of-domain data. Deep learn
ing models, similarly to Task 1, achieve good in
domain performance (over 71%) while performing
poorly out-of-domain (below 25%).
When analyzing the confusion matrices for the
models (Figure 9), it is obvious that the classical
models barely learned anything: they were mainly
predicting a single class. Deep learning models,
in contrast, tend to learn correct class assignments.
Interestingly, adversarial code samples are often
misclassified as human- or AI-written, highlighting
that the adversarial generation achieved its goals.
Additionally, hybrid cases are being misclassified
with AI-generated ones, as hybrid generation also
involves code rewriting that can drastically alter
the initial human-written code structure.
G ExamplesofModel Failures
Tables 10 to 12 showcase where all baselines fail.
In Task 1, models often fail on very short code snip
pets. Boilerplate code is also frequently mislabeled
as AI-generated, likely because such patterns are
commoninCode-LMtraining data, leading models
to misclassify them as AI output. For Task 2, we
omit predicted classes since models rarely agree;
each typically assigns a different class to the same
input, revealing task difficulty. In Task 3, errors
again focus on boilerplate code. Also, misclassi
f
ications mostly occur among similar categories,
AI-generated, hybrid, and adversarial, indicating
that models struggle to discern fine-grained distinc
tions between them.
H SHAPanalysis
Figure 10 compares token-level SHAP visualiza
tions for correctly and incorrectly classified sam
ples in Task 1, while Figure 11 shows the analogous
comparison for hybrid cases in Task 3. We also
manually inspect additional examples; the figures
show representative samples that illustrate the attri
bution patterns observed in a more general sense.
Analysis of other tasks and classes did not yield
19
particularly ModernBERT are less biased.
useful information .
Figure 5: Task 1 (Robust Binary Classification): performance evaluation of the detectors.
Figure 6: Task 2 (Model Family Attribution): performance evaluation of the detectors.
20
Figure 7: Task 2 (Model Family Attribution): confusion matrices for detectors.
21
Figure 8: Task 3 (Fine-Grained Human-Machine Classification): performance evaluation of the detectors.
Figure 9: Task 3 (Fine-Grained Human-Machine Classification): confusion matrices for detectors.
22
Code TrueLabel PredictedLabel Possibleexplanation
defmax(a,b):
returna if a >belseb
defmin(a,b):
returna if a <belseb
classStringHash:
def __init__(self, lst):
"""twomod to avoidhashcrush"""
# use twoclass to computeisfaster!!!
self.n= len(lst)
self.p= random.randint(26,100)
self.mod = random.randint(10 ** 9 +7, 2** 31- 1)
self.pre = [0]*(self.n+1)
self.pp=[1] * (self.n + 1)
forj,w inenumerate(lst):
self.pre[j+1]=(self.pre[j] * self.p+w)%self.mod
self.pp[j+ 1]= (self.pp[j]* self.p)% self.mod
return
def query(self,x, y):
"""range hash valueindex start from 0"""
# assert 0 <= x <= y <= self.n-1
ify<x:
return 0
# withlength y-x+1 important!!!
ans= (self.pre[y+1]-self.pre[x] * self.pp[y- x+1]) % self.mod
returnans
classSolution:
def countPrefixSuffixPairs(self,words: List[str])-> int:
ans= 0
st="".join(words)
sh1= StringHash([ord(w)-ord("a")forw inst])
sh2= StringHash([ord(w)-ord("a")forw inst])
pre= defaultdict(int)
length= 0
forword inwords:
m = len(word)
for iin range(1,m+1):
prefix =(sh1.query(length, length+i-1),sh2.query(length,length+i-1),i)
suffix =(sh1.query(length+m-1-i+1,length + m-1),sh2.query(length+m-1-i+1,length+m-1), i)
ifprefix ==suffix:
ans+= pre[prefix]
prefix = (sh1.query(length,length+m- 1),sh2.query(length, length+m- 1),m)
pre[prefix] +=1
length +=m
returnans
Human-Written AI-Generated DosctringsinStringHashdonot
lookhuman-written. Thatmay
bethecasethatStringHashisjust
aBoilerplateimplementation
s=input().strip()
x=int(input().strip())
if(s=="ABC"and x<2000)or(s=="ARC" and x<2800) or(s=="AGC"and x>=1200):
print(’yes’)
else:
print(’no’)
Human-Written AI-Generated Shortcodewithnotenoughsig
nalforclassification
N,*A=map(int,open(0).read().split())
T=[*zip(A,A[4:]+A[3:4])]
print(sum(max(0,a+b-N)fora,binT),sum(map(min,T)))
Human-Written AI-Generated Shortcodewithnotenoughsig
nalforclassification
Table10:Task1(RobustBinaryClassification):examplesofmodelmisclassificationandtheirpossibleexplana
tions.
23
Code ModelFamily
importjavax.crypto.Cipher;
importjavax.crypto.KeyGenerator;
importjavax.crypto.SecretKey;
importjavax.crypto.spec.IvParameterSpec;
importjavax.crypto.spec.SecretKeySpec;
importjava.security.KeyStore;
importjava.security.spec.PKCS8EncodedKeySpec;
importjavax.security.auth.callback.*;
importjavax.security.auth.Subject;
importjavax.security.auth.spi.*;
importjava.util.*;
importjava.nio.file.*;
importjava.security.*;
importjava.util.logging.*;
publicclass IoTSecurityFramework{
privatestaticfinalStringALGORITHM= "AES/CBC/PKCS5Padding";
privatestaticfinalLoggerlogger= Logger.getLogger(IoTSecurityFramework.class.getName());
privateSecretKeysecretKey;
privateIvParameterSpecivSpec;
publicIoTSecurityFramework() throws Exception {
//Generatesymmetric keyforAES
KeyGeneratorkeyGen= KeyGenerator.getInstance("AES");
keyGen.init(128);//Key size
secretKey=keyGen.generateKey();
ivSpec=newIvParameterSpec(newbyte[16]);//Initializationvector
}
publicbyte[]encrypt(Stringdata)throwsException{
Ciphercipher =Cipher.getInstance(ALGORITHM);
cipher.init(Cipher.ENCRYPT_MODE,secretKey,ivSpec);
returncipher.doFinal(data.getBytes());
}
publicStringdecrypt(byte[]encryptedData) throwsException {
Ciphercipher =Cipher.getInstance(ALGORITHM);
cipher.init(Cipher.DECRYPT_MODE,secretKey,ivSpec);
returnnew String(cipher.doFinal(encryptedData));
}
publicbooleanauthenticateDevice(StringdeviceId,StringsessionToken) {
//Mock authentication
return"validDeviceId".equals(deviceId)&&"validSessionToken".equals(sessionToken);
}
publicvoid roleBasedAccessControl(Stringrole)throwsSecurityException{
//SimpleRBACcheck
if(!"admin".equals(role)){
thrownew SecurityException("AccessDeniedfor role:"+role);
}
}
publicvoid logAccessEvent(Stringmessage){
logger.info(message);
}
publicvoid monitorForIntrusion(){
//Placeholderfor intrusion detection mechanism
System.out.println("Monitoringforunauthorizedaccess...");
}
publicbooleansecureCodingGuide(){
//Placeholderfor guide return
System.out.println("Guidelines: Validateinputs, Use preparedstatements, Error handling.");
returntrue;
}
publicstaticvoid main(String[] args)throwsException {
IoTSecurityFrameworksecurityFramework =newIoTSecurityFramework();
//Sampletest
StringoriginalData= "SensitiveIoTData";
byte[]encryptedData=securityFramework.encrypt(originalData);
StringdecryptedData=securityFramework.decrypt(encryptedData);
securityFramework.logAccessEvent("Data encrypted and decrypted successfully.");
System.out.println("Decrypteddata: "+decryptedData);
securityFramework.monitorForIntrusion();
try{
securityFramework.roleBasedAccessControl("user");
}catch (SecurityExceptione){
securityFramework.logAccessEvent(e.getMessage());
}
securityFramework.secureCodingGuide();
}
}
Granite
def data_gen_args(self, context:str)-> dict:
ifcontext == ’train’:
return dict(
horizontal_flip=self.horizontal_flip,
vertical_flip=self.vertical_flip,
image_size=self.crop_size
)
returndict(image_size=self.crop_size)
Mistral
Table11:Task2(ModelFamilyAttribution):codesnippetsthatcausederrors.
24
Code TrueLabel PredictedLabel Possibleexplanation
import pygame
import sys
import time
#Constants
SCREEN_WIDTH = 1026
SCREEN_HEIGHT=700
WINNING_SOUND_FILE=’SoundEffects/smb_stage_clear.wav’
BACKGROUND_IMAGE_FILE="Images/Background2.jpg"
FONT_FILE= ’font.ttf’
WIN_TEXT=’YOUWON!’
WIN_TEXT_COLOR =(50,205, 50)
FONT_SIZE= 26
GAME_DURATION=6 #seconds
classGame:
"""Representsthegame."""
def __init__(self):
"""Initializes thegame."""
pygame.init()
self.screen=pygame.display.set_mode((SCREEN_WIDTH,SCREEN_HEIGHT))
pygame.display.set_caption("Super PythonBros.")
self.clock= pygame.time.Clock()
self.winning_sound=self.load_winning_sound()
self.background_image = self.load_background_image()
self.win_text=self.render_win_text()
def load_winning_sound(self)->pygame.mixer.Sound|None:
"""Loadsthe winningsound effect."""
try:
return pygame.mixer.Sound(WINNING_SOUND_FILE)
exceptpygame.error ase:
print(f"Error loadingwinning sound:{e}")
return None
def load_background_image(self)->pygame.Surface| None:
"""Loadsthe background image."""
try:
return pygame.image.load(BACKGROUND_IMAGE_FILE).convert()
exceptpygame.error ase:
print(f"Error loadingbackgroundimage:{e}")
return None
def render_win_text(self)-> pygame.Surface:
"""Rendersthe wintext."""
font=pygame.font.Font(FONT_FILE, FONT_SIZE)
returnfont.render(WIN_TEXT, False,WIN_TEXT_COLOR)
def build_win_menu(self)->None:
"""Builds thewin menu."""
#Clear thescreenwith thebackgroundimage
self.screen.blit(self.background_image, (0,0))
#Renderthe wintext
self.screen.blit(self.win_text, (400,345))
#Updatethe display
pygame.display.flip()
def run(self)-> None:
"""Runs thegame."""
ifself.winning_sound:
self.winning_sound.play()
end_time=time.time()+GAME_DURATION
while time.time() < end_time:
self.build_win_menu()
forevent inpygame.event.get():
ifevent.type ==pygame.QUIT:
pygame.quit()
sys.exit()
elif event.type == pygame.KEYDOWN:
if event.key==pygame.K_ESCAPE:
pygame.quit()
sys.exit()
self.clock.tick(60)
if __name__ == "__main__":
game=Game()
game.run()
Hybrid mainlyAI-Generated,fewAdversarial Sinceitisahybridcase,misclas
sificationhappenswithtwomost
similarcases
packagezmq.util;
// Emulates theerrnomechanism presentin C++,in aper-threadbasis.
public final classErrno
{
privatestatic finalThreadLocal<Integer> local=ThreadLocal.withInitial(()-> 0);
publicint get()
{
returnlocal.get();
}
publicvoidset(int errno)
{
local.set(errno);
}
publicboolean is(int err)
{
returnget() ==err;
}
@Override
publicStringtoString()
{
return"Errno["+ get() +"]";
}
}
Human-Written AllclassesexceptHuman-Written Tooboiler-platelike
Table12:Task3(Fine-GrainedHuman-MachineClassification):examplesofmodelmisclassificationandtheir
possibleexplanations.
25
SHAPfor correct predictions.
SHAPfor incorrect predictions.
Figure 10: Task 1 (Robust Binary Classification): token-level SHAP visualizations comparing correct vs. incorrect
predictions.
SHAPfor correct predictions.
SHAPfor incorrect predictions.
Figure 11: Task 3 (Fine-Grained Human-Machine Classification): token-level SHAP visualizations comparing
correct vs. incorrect predictions for hybrid class prediction.
26